Update repo with '22 program changes (#21)
protocol/research-grants: FAQ.md

# Grants and RFPs FAQ

#### What needs to be submitted with my application?

> Each open grant and RFP has its own set of requirements; these are clearly stated in the application portal. Most will require a detailed proposal and a CV. Doctoral and postdoctoral fellowships also require a letter of recommendation, which can be submitted directly by the applicant or emailed to research-acceleration@protocol.ai by the recommender. 

Author: ```suggestion
Each open grant and RFP has its own set of requirements; these are clearly stated in the application portal. Most will require a detailed proposal and a CV. Doctoral and postdoctoral fellowships also require a letter of recommendation, which must be submitted with the application. 
```

Author: We dropped the option of emailing later as part of the streamlining

Author: Also, very few things are now stated in the portal; it just redirects people to GitHub for further information.

Reviewer: > We dropped the option of emailing later as part of the streamlining

It wasn't a big lift for me to add these to proposals in Apply. Even though applicants will be able to see them whether we upload them ourselves or they do, I'm a little concerned that some advisors won't want to do this. More than half in the last round chose to email directly.

> Also, very few things are now stated in the portal; it just redirects people to GitHub for further information.

Is it possible we're talking about different things? This question is usually about the minutiae of proposals, which afaik is best explained in the task instructions in Apply.

Author: > It wasn't a big lift for me to add these to proposals in Apply. Even though applicants will be able to see them whether we upload them ourselves or they do, I'm a little concerned that some advisors won't want to do this. More than half in the last round chose to email directly.

It wasn't a big lift in terms of actions, but it also meant applications might be stalled for weeks, be mistracked, etc. Our SLAs for this round were pretty bad, with applications remaining in screening long over 48h (after the deadline). This really shouldn't happen. 

It should come as no surprise that I'd make everything public if it were my call. There is no acceptable reason why an advisor would not want to disclose a letter to their employee, unless they're getting ready to waste everyone's time. 

> This question is usually about the minutiae of proposals, which afaik is best explained in the task instructions in Apply.

Understood, but we need to write that clearly. Right now we're redirecting people to a page that redirects them right back.

#### Can I submit a fellowship proposal on behalf of someone else?
Doctoral and postdoctoral fellowship proposals may be submitted by an advisor or by administrative staff at the candidate's institution. Please note that all requirements must still be met, including a detailed research proposal and letter of recommendation.

#### My institution requires documentation of the funding commitment in order to process it. Can you provide this documentation?
Yes. Protocol Labs will create a gift letter as standard. It is also possible for us to write a more tailored letter if required. However, non-standard letters take additional time and may require input from multiple individuals and departments. If your institution has very particular requirements, please ensure that the your institution's point-of-contact for funding makes us aware of these as soon as possible.

#### Who can I contact if I have questions that aren't answered here?

> A: Please reach out to research-acceleration@protocol.ai 

Author: ```suggestion
A: Please reach out to research-grants@protocol.ai.
```

# Grants and RFPs FAQ

Q: What needs to be submitted with my application?

> A: Each open grant and RFP has its own set of requirements; these are clearly stated in the application portal. Most will require a detailed proposal and a CV. PhD and postdoctoral fellowships also require a letter of recommendation, which can be submitted directly by the applicant or emailed to research-acceleration@protocol.ai by the recommender. 

Author: ```suggestion
A: Each open grant and RFP has its own set of requirements; these are clearly stated in the application portal. Most will require a detailed proposal and a CV. Doctoral and postdoctoral fellowships also require a letter of recommendation, which can be submitted directly by the applicant or emailed to research-acceleration@protocol.ai by the recommender. 
```

Q: My proposal was denied. Can I apply again in the future?

A: Yes. If you feel you can thoroughly address the reviewers’ feedback and ensure that a future proposal is aligned with Protocol Labs’ research priorities (as you understand them), we would welcome the opportunity to review a future application. It may be possible to set up a call with members of the lab you are interested in to discuss this. Please note that you will need to submit a new proposal, as we do not re-review proposals from previous cycles.

Q: When can I expect a decision on my proposal?

A: For fellowships, summer research grants, and research sabbatical awards, we will typically notify you of a decision within eight weeks of the close of the quarterly review cycle. Please do not reach out to ask about the status of your proposal before eight weeks have elapsed.

Q: Can I submit a fellowship proposal on behalf of someone else?

> A: PhD and postdoctoral fellowship proposals may be submitted by an advisor or by administrative staff at the candidate's institution. Please note that all requirements must still be met, including a detailed research proposal and letter of recommendation.

Author: ```suggestion
A: Doctoral and postdoctoral fellowship proposals may be submitted by an advisor or by administrative staff at the candidate's institution. Please note that all requirements must still be met, including a detailed research proposal and letter of recommendation.
```
